# `snapAnalysis`
An N-body simulation snapshot analysis package. `snapAnalysis` is designed specifically for working with idealized simulations of at most a few galaxies, rather than cosmological simulations. Currently, it supports any GADGET-format snapshots stored in the hdf5 format, though compatibility with older GADGET binary files is planned for the future. `snapAnalysis` can also handle fuzzy dark matter snapshots generated by Arepo's BECDM module. 

`snapAnalysis` supports many common workflows for handling snapshots, including particle loading, particle filtering, centering, rotations, coordinate transformations, galaxy shape analysis, particle orbit extraction, galaxy center-of-mass orbit extraction, and more. Also included are a few basic visualization functions for plotting density and potential fields, density and anisotropy profiles, and more. Units are detected automatically from snapshot headers and handled using astropy's units module. 

`snapAnalysis` is still under active development, and may still be missing planned functionality. 

## Installation
0. I recommend installing `snapAnalysis` inside a virtual environment. If you already have one set up, activate it before cloning this repo. Otherwise, create a virtual environment with
```bash
python -m venv --system-site-packages </path/to/virtual/env>
```
then activate it 
```bash
source </path/to/virtual/env>/bin/activate
```
and upgrade pip if needed
```bash
pip install --upgrade pip
```

### With `pip` via PyPI
```bash
pip install snapanalysis
```

### From Source
NOTE: If you intend to develop/contribute to `snapAnalysis`, please use the [development install instructions](/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-code). 
1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/hfoote/snapAnalysis.git
```

2. Install with pip:
```bash
cd snapAnalysis
python -m pip install .
```

## Tutorials
Tutorial notebooks are available in the [tutorials folder](/tutorials/). I also encourage you to look through the test suite for further examples of how to use `snapAnalysis`.

## Documentation
Our documentation is hosted on ReadTheDocs here: [https://snapanalysis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/]

## Issues and Contributing
Please see the [contribution guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md). 

## Acknowledgement
If you use `snapAnalysis` as part of a published work, we request that you include the URL of this repository (https://github.com/hfoote/snapAnalysis) as a footnote upon the first mention of `snapAnalysis` in the text, and/or as part of your software acknowledgements. 
